Arranger Charts Docs (#1083)
overture-stack/arranger: modules/charts/README.md

# Arranger Charts

> !TODO Rename to README.md

Reviewer: probably not needed anymore?

```
charts/
├── .storybook/
└── src/
    ├── arranger/
    ├── components/
    │   ├── charts/
    │   │   ├── Bar/
    │   │   │   └── nivo/
    │   │   └── Sunburst/
    │   └── Provider/
    ├── gql/
    ├── hooks/
    ├── logger/
    ├── query/
    ├── utils/
    └── main.tsx
```

Brief description of each folder:

- **.storybook/** - Storybook hasn't been fully implemented at this time.
- **arranger/** - Types for working with Arranger GQL responses.
- **components/charts/** - React components for Bar and Sunburst charts.
- **components/Provider/** - `ChartsProvider` combines all of its child chart requests into one API request, then maps the result into chart data.
- **gql/** - Functions for creating GraphQL queries.
- **hooks/** - React hooks for querying GraphQL & creating the color scheme for all charts on the page.
- **logger/** - Simple logger.
- **query/** - Generates one query for all charts, for the `ChartsProvider`.
- **utils/** - Utility scripts for handling API responses.
- **main.tsx** - Barrel/export file.

## Local development

To use Arranger Charts in your project, you need the following prerequisites:

> - Node 22 or above

Reviewer: line 80 states v24+ (which i like)

| [Song](https://github.com/overture-stack/song/)         | Catalog and manage metadata associated to file data spread across cloud storage systems   |
| [Maestro](https://github.com/overture-stack/maestro/)   | Organizing your distributed data into a centralized Elasticsearch index                   |
| [Arranger](https://github.com/overture-stack/arranger/) | A search API with reusable search UI components                                           |
| [Stage](https://github.com/overture-stack/stage)        | A React-based web portal scaffolding                                                      |
| [Lyric](https://github.com/overture-stack/lyric)        | A model-agnostic, tabular data submission system                                          |
| [Lectern](https://github.com/overture-stack/lectern)    | Schema Manager, designed to validate, store, and manage collections of data dictionaries. |

If you'd like to get started using our platform [check out our quickstart guides](https://docs.overture.bio/guides/getting-started)

## Funding Acknowledgement

> Overture is supported by grant #U24CA253529 from the National Cancer Institute at the US National Institutes of Health, and additional funding from Genome Canada, the Canada Foundation for Innovation, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Canarie, and the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overture is supported by grant #U24CA253529 from the National Cancer Institute at the US National Institutes of Health, the Digital Research Alliance of Canada and additional funding from Genome Canada, the Canada Foundation for Innovation, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research.
```

Reviewer 2: Note to self i need to update this across the docs site
